RESEARCH PROJECT: A Demonstration of C-LARA
RESEARCHERS: Branislav Bédi, ChatGPT, Belinda Chiera, Cathy Chua, Neasa Ní Chiaráin, Manny Rayner, Annika Simonson, Rina Zviel-Girshin.

INTERVIEWEE’S NAME: 
INTERVIEWEE’S AGE: 
INTERVIEWEE’S GENDER SELF IDENTIFICATION: 
INTERVIEWEE’S COUNTRY OF LIVING:
INTERVIEWEE’S NATIONALITY: 
INTERVIEWEE’S E-MAIL (in case of further contact):

INTRODUCTION. The research will focus on demonstratin C-LARA, a complete reimplementation of the Learning And Reading Assistant (LARA) which puts ChatGPT-4 in the centre. ChatGPT-4 is used both as a software, to create and annotate text, and as a software, to implement the platform itself: over 90% of the new platform's code has been written by ChatGPT-4, working in close collaboration with one of the authors. We will show how ChatGPT-4 can on its own write and annotate short stories suitable for intermediate level language classes, producing high quality multimedia output generally usable after only minor editing, and how the AI is able to discuss the code, discussing the feasibility of possible enhancements and extensions..
PURPOSE OF RESEARCH. The purpose of this research is to examine the perception of users discussing featuresf of C-LARA with ChatGPT.
DURATION. This research might be completed within a week provided that all interviewees will be available on the scheduled dates. The interview session will only last for up to 1 hour and will be recorded on video and sound. The recordings will be stored in a computer with a secured access to the two researchers. 
CONFIDENTIALITY. The data provided by the interviewee will be considered anonymous and will be shared through Git-hub or similar platform for others to review, however, only based on prior written permission from the interviewee.
BENEFITS.  This research will demonstrate the perception and use of ChatGPT by users who work on development of C-LARA and provide insights on how their communication with ChatGPT helped to better understand both the role of ChatGPT in this development process and the features and code that would be benefitial to expand C-LARA. 
RIGHT TO REFUSE OR DISCONTINUE. The interviewee has the right to discontinue or decline the participation in the research anytime they feel to do so.

o	I confirm that my participation in this research project is voluntary.
o	I acknowledge that I will not be receiving any payments in regard to my participation.
I confirm that the duration of the research wherein I will participate is about 1 hour only which includes a recorded interview.
o	I acknowledge that I have the right to decline or discontinue my participation in this research when I have a valid reason to do so.
o	I have read and understood what the research is all about and how it will affect the target audience.
o	I understand that the researchers will not identify me by name in any reports using information captured from one of my interviews I completed. 
o	I understand that the researchers will publish their materials in books, research journals, and other research-related projects.




Date: 
INTERVIEWEE’S signature: 
