Online Survey for the Demonstration of C-LARA Project
	Questions

1.	On a scale of 1-5 please rate your prior knowledge and experience with the LARA and C-LARA projects. (1= highest level, 5=lowest level)
2.	On a scale of 1-5 how would you rate your technical understanding of the C-LARA project? (1= highest level, 5=lowest level)
3.	Do you have any coding or programming background? If yes, please briefly describe
4.	Have you interacted with ChatGPT or any similar AI models before? If so, in what context?
5.	Did ChatGPT-4 request to see any files beyond the README?
6.	If you answered Yes to the previous question, which files did ChatGPT-4 request?	
7.	On a scale of 1-5, how relevant did you find the discussion with ChatGPT-4 to your queries and ideas about C-LARA? (1 = most relevant; 5 = least relevant)
8.	Did the conversation with ChatGPT-4 help to further your understanding of the potential for additional functionality in C-LARA?
9.	On a scale of 1-5, how well do you think ChatGPT-4 understood the context of your queries about C-LARA? (1 = most well; 5 = least well)
10.	Were there any misunderstandings or incorrect responses during the conversation with ChatGPT-4?
11.	Did you find the responses from ChatGPT-4 clear and easy to understand?
12.	On a scale of 1-5, rate the overall quality of responses provided by ChatGPT-4. (1 = highest quality; 5 = lowest quality)
13.	Do you feel that the conversation with ChatGPT-4 helped in assessing the feasibility of your proposed ideas for C-LARA?
14.	How would you rate ChatGPT-4's helpfulness in discussing potential additional functionality for C-LARA? (1 = most helpful; 5 = least helpful)
15.	On a scale of 1-5, how satisfied were you about the discussion you had with ChatGPT-4 about C-LARA? (1 = most satisfied; 5 = least satisfied)
16.	Your gender identity
17.	Your current occupation
18.	How long have you been using LARA? (Please write number in months, if less than a month then write 1 as your answer).	
19.	How long have you been using ChatGPT or similar AI models? (Please write number in months, if less than a month then write 1 as your answer).	
20.	Please describe your experience in designing features for online educational tools or similar.	
21.	On a scale of 1-5, how would you rate your proficiency in programming? (1 = most proficient; 5 = least proficient)	
22.	On a scale of 1-5, how would you rate your proficiency in designing features for online educational tools or similar? (1 = most proficient; 5 = least proficient)	
23.	On a scale of 1-5, how would you rate your proficiency in using ChatGPT or similar AI models? (1 = most proficient; 5 = least proficient).	
24.	How frequently do you use the LARA portal? Provide a short answer and mention occasions when you use it.	
25.	How frequently do you use ChatGPT or similar AI models? Provide a short answer and mention occasions when you use it.	
26.	How frequently do you design features for online educational tools or similar? Provide a short answer and mention some examples, if any.	
27.	Which version of ChatGPT did you use? (e.g., ChatGPT-4)	
28.	On a scale of 1 to 5, do you thinthat ChatGPT is effective in discussing features for C-LARA? (1 = High Effective, 5 = Low ineffective)	
29.	Did ChatGPT provide any valuable advice on novel or enhanced features for C-LARA? Please provide a short answer describing your experience.	
30.	On a scale of 1-5, how would you rate the speed and efficiency of using ChatGPT for gathering information about C-LARA? (1 = very high; 5 = very low).	
31.	Do you believe using ChatGPT to discuss technical features of C-LARA is advantageous for the development of C-LARA?	
32.	Do you think using ChatGPT makes it easier to discuss pedagogically relevant features for language learning in C-LARA?	
33.	How important do you think AI technology is in the development of online tools for both non-technical and technical users? (1 = most important; 5 = least important)
34.	How long did your conversation with ChatGPT about the C-LARA project last? (in minutes)	
35.	Please briefly describe the reasons for ending the conversation with ChatGPT about the C-LARA project.	
36.	On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel in using ChatGPT for tasks related to the C-LARA project? (1 = most confident; 5 = least confident).	
37.	On a scale of 1-5, how confident do you feel in learning new ways of developing language tools through ChatGPT? (1 = most confident; 5 = least confident). 	
38.	Did you enjoy talking to ChatGPT and discussing relevant issues related to the C-LARA project?	
39.	How would you rate the helpfulness of ChatGPT in enhancing your understanding of non-technical and technical issues of the C-LARA project? (1= most useful; 5 = least useful)	
40.	Do you believe that ChatGPT has the potential to be a useful development tool for the C-LARA project?	 
41.	How confident are you about the answers provided by ChatGPT related to the C-LARA project? (1 = most confident; 5 = least confident)	
42.	Overall, how satisfied were you with the discussion you had with ChatGPT about the C-LARA project? (1 = most satisfied; 5 = least satisfied)	
43.	Would you be open to having more interactions with ChatGPT to discuss the C-LARA or similar projects in the future?	
44.	Please provide any additional feedback or suggestions you have regarding the use of ChatGPT in discussing C-LARA or any other thoughts you would like to share about the project.						
